stories/10-For Developers/Documenting Components.stories.mdx, before:

import { Meta } from '@storybook/addon-docs/blocks';

<Meta title="For Developers/Documenting Components" />

# Documenting Components

Storybook makes it easy to provide detailed documentation for components.

## YUIdoc Comments

Use YUIdoc comments to document public properties in the component's `js` file. Include all properties that can be passed into a component here, even ones that are only referenced in code in the `hbs` templates.

YUIdoc examples for ember classes and components:
https://github.com/ember-learn/ember-cli-addon-docs-yuidoc#documenting-components

Example component YUIdoc comment:
``````js
/**
  Component description.....

  Usage:
  ```
  <NyprAButton>
    Click Me
  </NyprAButton>
  ```

  @class nypr-a-button
  @yield {Block} block
*/
export default Component.extend({
//...
``````

Example property YUIDoc comment:
```js
/**
Title for the component, plain text.

@argument title
@type {String}
*/
title: '',
```

## Creating a Story File

A story is a tembplat and some data containing a usage example of a component. A story file can contain multiple stories to show multiple states and variants of  component.

example story file:

nypr-a-button.stories.js
```js
import hbs from 'htmlbars-inline-precompile';
// A story is just a javascript file.

// The default export is an object with metadata about your component.
export default {
  title: 'Components/Atoms/Button',  // The storybook title
  component: 'nypr-a-button'         // The component name
};

// The rest of the exports are the stories.

// The simplest story is just a template.
export const PrimaryButton = () => ({
  template: hbs`<NyprAButton class='a-button--primary'>Primary Button</NyprAButton>`
});

// You can include data with a context object.
export const DonateButton = () => ({
  template: hbs`<NyprAButton class={@className}>{@text}</NyprAButton>`,
  context: {
    className: 'a-button--donate',
    text: 'Donate Button'
  }
});
```

## Docs Pages

Storybook will take your YUIdoc Comments and your stories file and [automatically generate a documentation page](https://medium.com/storybookjs/storybook-docspage-e185bc3622bf).

Commit message:

Add blueprint for generating story files

stories/10-For Developers/Documenting Components.stories.mdx, after:

import { Meta } from '@storybook/addon-docs/blocks';

<Meta title="For Developers/Documenting Components" />

# Documenting Components

Storybook makes it easy to provide detailed documentation for components.

## YUIdoc Comments

Use YUIdoc comments to document public properties in the component's `js` file. Include all properties that can be passed into a component here, even ones that are only referenced in code in the `hbs` templates.

YUIdoc examples for ember classes and components:
https://github.com/ember-learn/ember-cli-addon-docs-yuidoc#documenting-components

Example component YUIdoc comment:
``````js
/**
  Component description.....

  Usage:
  ```
  <NyprAButton>
    Click Me
  </NyprAButton>
  ```

  @class nypr-a-button
  @yield {Block} block
*/
export default Component.extend({
//...
``````

Example property YUIDoc comment:
```js
/**
Title for the component, plain text.

@argument title
@type {String}
*/
title: '',
```

## Creating a Story File

A story is a tembplat and some data containing a usage example of a component. A story file can contain multiple stories to show multiple states and variants of  component.

You can create a story file for a component by typing

```bash
ember g stories my-component-name
```

example story file:

nypr-a-button.stories.js
```js
import hbs from 'htmlbars-inline-precompile';
// A story is just a javascript file.

// The default export is an object with metadata about your component.
export default {
  title: 'Components/Atoms/Button',  // The storybook title
  component: 'nypr-a-button'         // The component name
};

// The rest of the exports are the stories.

// The simplest story is just a template.
export const PrimaryButton = () => ({
  template: hbs`<NyprAButton class='a-button--primary'>Primary Button</NyprAButton>`
});

// You can include data with a context object.
export const DonateButton = () => ({
  template: hbs`<NyprAButton class={@className}>{@text}</NyprAButton>`,
  context: {
    className: 'a-button--donate',
    text: 'Donate Button'
  }
});
```

## Docs Pages

Storybook will take your YUIdoc Comments and your stories file and [automatically generate a documentation page](https://medium.com/storybookjs/storybook-docspage-e185bc3622bf).
