stories/00-Foundations/00-Intro.stories.mdx, before:

import { Meta } from '@storybook/addon-docs/blocks';

<Meta title="Foundations/Intro" />

# Welcome to Radial, The New York Public Radio Design System

Feel free to explore all of the materials you find here. There are onboarding materials for design and development with more to come soon.

What is a design system? Design systems are made up of building blocks that help organizations build scalable, user-centric, data-driven products. They usually consist of a component library and style guide which you will find here.

Radial is the framework that we will use to build, iterate and optimize digital experiences, extend brand identity, deliver consistent UI/UX patterns, and optimize process across disciplines. With a design system in place, we can deliver best-in-class (radio, podcast and news) content, membership, and ad experience across our platforms that will delight and inform our audiences.

## Radial Design Principles

The Radial Design System consists of the user-focused design patterns and components that power the digital presence of our brands. These principles and our library of components provide the framework to build great storytelling platforms and a cohesive user experience. The team uses these principles as filters to determine what goes into the system, what’s custom and what is not.
 
 
### _Inclusive_ 💕 

Build for all our users, internally and externally.

### _Documented_ 📝

Record our decisions as part of the design and build process, it serves our team and the team after us.

### _Connective_ 🤝

Work to make the gaps within and between Digital and NYPR a little smaller.

### _Content-centered_ 🎧

Radial is in service to the content on our platforms. We’re building storytelling tools.

### _Flexible, but focused_ 🤺

Keep configurability grounded in real uses-cases. Design for reusability and efficiency.

Commit message:

Updated first 3 paragraphs
Providing more clarity on what a design system is

stories/00-Foundations/00-Intro.stories.mdx, after:

import { Meta } from '@storybook/addon-docs/blocks';

<Meta title="Foundations/Intro" />

# Welcome to Radial, The New York Public Radio Design System

Design systems are made up of building blocks that help organizations build scalable, user-centric, data-driven products with consistent UX. Our design system, Radial consists of a component library, a living style guide and theming tools.

Radial is the framework that we will use to build, iterate and optimize digital experiences, extend brand identity, deliver consistent UI/UX patterns, and optimize process across disciplines. With a design system in place, we can deliver best-in-class (radio, podcast and news) content, membership, and ad experience across our platforms that will delight and inform our audiences.

Feel free to explore all of the materials you find here. There are onboarding materials for design and development with more to come soon.

## Radial Design Principles

The Radial Design System consists of the user-focused design patterns and components that power the digital presence of our brands. These principles and our library of components provide the framework to build great storytelling platforms and a cohesive user experience. The team uses these principles as filters to determine what goes into the system, what’s custom and what is not.
 
 
### _Inclusive_ 💕 

Build for all our users, internally and externally.

### _Documented_ 📝

Record our decisions as part of the design and build process, it serves our team and the team after us.

### _Connective_ 🤝

Work to make the gaps within and between Digital and NYPR a little smaller.

### _Content-centered_ 🎧

Radial is in service to the content on our platforms. We’re building storytelling tools.

### _Flexible, but focused_ 🤺

Keep configurability grounded in real uses-cases. Design for reusability and efficiency.
