stories/00-Foundations/10-Typography.stories.mdx, before:

import { Meta } from '@storybook/addon-docs/blocks';
import { FontSamples } from '../../.storybook/custom/components/Swatches'
import fontStyles from './font-styles.js'

<Meta title="Foundations/Typography" />

# Typography

*Radial provides a wide range of type options to adapt to all our brands while maintaining a clear hierarchy and good page load performance. These guidelines help designers and developers work freely with good type practices in mind.*

**Type Scale**
Radial uses a [modular scale](https://www.modularscale.com/?18&px&1.125) to give our type purposeful sizing and visual harmony. Using our base body text size of **18px**, a ratio of **8:9** (known as a major second or numerically as **1.125**) is applied to determine the rest of [our scale](https://www.modularscale.com/?18&px&1.125).

Each of our brand themes determines its modular scale by setting these Font Levers:
```css
  /* Font Levers */
  --font-base: 18px;
  --font-ratio: 1.25;
```


<FontSamples samples={fontStyles}/>

**Line Heights**
Default line heights are determined based on the hierarchical name of the size. Read Display Styles **[ADD LINK]** if this next part doesn’t make sense.

- Line heights for **headers** are **1.5x** their font size.
- Line heights for **body** text are **1.8x** their font size.
- Line heights for **small text** are **1.4x** their font size.

*For the future; rounding the line heights to the nearest multiple of 8 using the currently in development CSS “line-height-step”*

| Size name    | Font size: desktop | Line height: desktop | Font size: mobile | Line height: mobile |
| ------------ | ------------------ | -------------------- | ----------------- | ------------------- |
| Font size 16 | 58.45              | 87.7                 | 46.18             | 69.27               |
| Font size 15 | 51.96              | 77.93                | 41.05             | 61.58               |
| Font size 14 | 46.18              | 69.27                | 36.49             | 54.74               |
| Font size 13 | 41.05              | 61.58                | 32.44             | 48.66               |
| Font size 12 | 36.49              | 54.74                | 28.83             | 43.25               |
| Font size 11 | 32.44              | 48.66                | 25.63             | 38.45               |
| Font size 10 | 28.83              | 43.25                | 22.78             | 34.17               |
| Font size 9  | 25.63              | 38.45                | 20.25             | 30.38               |
| Font size 8  | 22.78              | 34.17                | 18                | 32.4                |
| Font size 7  | 20.25              | 30.38                | 16                | 28.8                |
| Font size 6  | 18                 | 32.4                 |                   |                     |
| Font size 5  | 16                 | 28.8                 |                   |                     |
| Font size 4  | 14.222             | 19.91                |                   |                     |
| Font size 3  | 12.642             | 17.7                 |                   |                     |
| Font size 2  | 11.237             | 15.73                |                   |                     |
| Font size 1  | 9.989              | 13                   |                   |                     |


**Type Components**
To create some naming hierarchy around our font scale sizes, we've established some name ranges to make things easier.

 - Anything larger than the scale's base font size (18px) is considered a **Header**
 - **Sub-header?**
 - Our base font size and one below are both considered **Body Text**
 - Sizes below the body text are **Small Text**

**Fonts Used - Whitelabel**
Our Whitelabel uses two typefaces to show a clear hierarchy and to display style variation/font flexibility within a given theme.   **[Libre Baskerville](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Libre+Baskerville?selection.family=Libre%20Baskerville)** is used as the primary font for headlines and titles.  **[Source Sans Pro](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Source+Sans+Pro)** is used as our default secondary and tertiary font for body text as well as small headers and info text. The fonts are open source and are freely available for download from [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/).

**Fonts Used - [MOVE TO GOTHAMIST TYPE MD]**
Gothamist uses three typefaces for its brand, creating a clear and expressive hierarchy while maintaining readability. These typefaces complement each other, while also performing well in their assigned hierarchy. **[Pragati Narrow](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Pragati+Narrow)** is used as the primary font for headlines and titles. **[Barlow](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Barlow)** is used as a secondary font for body text. **[B612 Mono](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/B612+Mono)** is used as a tertiary font for small headers and info text. The fonts are open source and are freely available for download from [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/).

### Theme Typefaces

Radial allows for themes to have a maximum of four typefaces. This keeps loading speeds faster and content more digestible. Typefaces can occupy one of 4 slots:

Font Family Header
```css
--font-family-header: 'Libre Baskerville', 'Times New Roman', serif;
--line-height-header: 1.5;
--letter-spacing-header: normal;
--font-weight-header: 700;
```
Font Family Subheader
```css
  --font-family-subheader: 'Libre Baskervile', 'Times New Roman', serif;
  --line-height-subheader: 1.5;
  --letter-spacing-subheader: normal;
  --font-weight-subheader: 700;
```
Font Family Body
```css
 --font-family-body: 'Source Sans Pro', Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;
  --line-height-body: 1.8;
  --letter-spacing-body: normal;
  --font-weight-body: 400;
```

Font Family Small
```css
  --font-family-small: 'Source Sans Pro', Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;
  --line-height-small: 1.4;
  --letter-spacing-small: 1px;
  --font-weight-small: 400;
```

### Display Styles

To create some naming hierarchy around our font scale sizes, we’ve established some naming conventions to make things easier.

-   **Header:** Anything bigger than the scale’s base font size.
-   **Subheader:** TBD
-   **Body Text:** The base size and smaller.
-   **Small Text:** Sizes smaller than Body Text size.

### Line Length

Wide lines of text can be difficult for users to read and short lines of text can interrupt a reader’s flow. Setting a proper line length will break up body text in a digestible way. For body copy, try to keep line lengths between 60-80 characters long. Make use of a predetermined grid to keep lengths acceptable.

  
See [W3 Page Structure Guidelines](https://www.w3.org/WAI/tutorials/page-structure/styling/) for more information.

## Brand Typefaces

| Brand | Font & Description | Example |
| -- | -- | -- |
| Whitelabel, Primary | **Libre Baskerville** <br/>is used as our default primary font for headlines and titles, as well as subheaders which are page headings and section headings | BOLD, REGULAR EXAMPLE |
| Whitelabel, Secondary | **Source Sans Pro** <br/>is used as our default secondary and tertiary font for body text as well as small headers and info text | BOLD, REGULAR, ITALICS EXAMPLES |
| Gothamist, Primary | **Pragati Narrow** <br/>is used as the primary font for headlines and titles, as well as subheaders which are page headings and section headings | BOLD, REGULAR EXAMPLES |
| Gothamist, Secondary | **Barlow** <br/>is used as a secondary font for body text. | BOLD, REGULAR, ITALICS EXAMPLE |
| Gothamist, Tertiary | **B612 Mono** <br/>is used as a tertiary font for small headers and info text. Since this font is always displayed at a very small size, to help with legibility, this font should always be utilized in all caps, with a letter-spacing of 1.25 | BOLD,<br/>REGULAR EXAMPLES |

Commit message:

Updated display styles and language around naming

stories/00-Foundations/10-Typography.stories.mdx, after:

import { Meta } from '@storybook/addon-docs/blocks';
import { FontSamples } from '../../.storybook/custom/components/Swatches'
import fontStyles from './font-styles.js'

<Meta title="Foundations/Typography" />

# Typography

*Radial provides a wide range of type options to adapt to all our brands while maintaining a clear hierarchy and good page load performance. These guidelines help designers and developers work freely with good type practices in mind.*

**Type Scale**
Radial uses a [modular scale](https://www.modularscale.com/?18&px&1.125) to give our type purposeful sizing and visual harmony. Using our base body text size of **18px**, a ratio of **8:9** (known as a major second or numerically as **1.125**) is applied to determine the rest of [our scale](https://www.modularscale.com/?18&px&1.125).

Each of our brand themes determines its modular scale by setting these Font Levers:
```css
  /* Font Levers */
  --font-base: 18px;
  --font-ratio: 1.25;
```


<FontSamples samples={fontStyles}/>

**Line Heights**
Default line heights are determined based on the hierarchical name of the size. Read Display Styles **[ADD LINK]** if this next part doesn’t make sense.

- Line heights for **headers** are **1.5x** their font size.
- Line heights for **body** text are **1.8x** their font size.
- Line heights for **small text** are **1.4x** their font size.

*For the future; rounding the line heights to the nearest multiple of 8 using the currently in development CSS “line-height-step”*

| Size name    | Font size: desktop | Line height: desktop | Font size: mobile | Line height: mobile |
| ------------ | ------------------ | -------------------- | ----------------- | ------------------- |
| Font size 16 | 58.45              | 87.7                 | 46.18             | 69.27               |
| Font size 15 | 51.96              | 77.93                | 41.05             | 61.58               |
| Font size 14 | 46.18              | 69.27                | 36.49             | 54.74               |
| Font size 13 | 41.05              | 61.58                | 32.44             | 48.66               |
| Font size 12 | 36.49              | 54.74                | 28.83             | 43.25               |
| Font size 11 | 32.44              | 48.66                | 25.63             | 38.45               |
| Font size 10 | 28.83              | 43.25                | 22.78             | 34.17               |
| Font size 9  | 25.63              | 38.45                | 20.25             | 30.38               |
| Font size 8  | 22.78              | 34.17                | 18                | 32.4                |
| Font size 7  | 20.25              | 30.38                | 16                | 28.8                |
| Font size 6  | 18                 | 32.4                 |                   |                     |
| Font size 5  | 16                 | 28.8                 |                   |                     |
| Font size 4  | 14.222             | 19.91                |                   |                     |
| Font size 3  | 12.642             | 17.7                 |                   |                     |
| Font size 2  | 11.237             | 15.73                |                   |                     |
| Font size 1  | 9.989              | 13                   |                   |                     |


**Display Styles**
To create some naming hierarchy around our font scale sizes, we've established some name ranges to make things easier.

 - Anything larger than the scale's base font size (18px) is considered a **Header**
 - **Sub-headers** are an optional secondary header size. Their size lies between headers and body text.
 - Our base font size and one size smaller are both considered **Body Text**
 - Sizes below the body text are **Small Text**

**Fonts Used - Whitelabel**
Our Whitelabel uses two typefaces to show a clear hierarchy and to display style variation/font flexibility within a given theme.   **[Libre Baskerville](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Libre+Baskerville?selection.family=Libre%20Baskerville)** is used as the primary font for headlines and titles.  **[Source Sans Pro](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Source+Sans+Pro)** is used as our default secondary and tertiary font for body text as well as small headers and info text. The fonts are open source and are freely available for download from [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/).

**Fonts Used - [MOVE TO GOTHAMIST TYPE MD]**
Gothamist uses three typefaces for its brand, creating a clear and expressive hierarchy while maintaining readability. These typefaces complement each other, while also performing well in their assigned hierarchy. **[Pragati Narrow](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Pragati+Narrow)** is used as the primary font for headlines and titles. **[Barlow](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Barlow)** is used as a secondary font for body text. **[B612 Mono](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/B612+Mono)** is used as a tertiary font for small headers and info text. The fonts are open source and are freely available for download from [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/).

### Theme Typefaces

Radial allows for themes to have a maximum of four typefaces. This keeps loading speeds faster and content more digestible. Typefaces can occupy one of 4 slots:

Font Family Header
```css
--font-family-header: 'Libre Baskerville', 'Times New Roman', serif;
--line-height-header: 1.5;
--letter-spacing-header: normal;
--font-weight-header: 700;
```
Font Family Subheader
```css
  --font-family-subheader: 'Libre Baskervile', 'Times New Roman', serif;
  --line-height-subheader: 1.5;
  --letter-spacing-subheader: normal;
  --font-weight-subheader: 700;
```
Font Family Body
```css
 --font-family-body: 'Source Sans Pro', Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;
  --line-height-body: 1.8;
  --letter-spacing-body: normal;
  --font-weight-body: 400;
```

Font Family Small
```css
  --font-family-small: 'Source Sans Pro', Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;
  --line-height-small: 1.4;
  --letter-spacing-small: 1px;
  --font-weight-small: 400;
```

### Line Length

Wide lines of text can be difficult for users to read and short lines of text can interrupt a reader’s flow. Setting a proper line length will break up body text in a digestible way. For body copy, try to keep line lengths between 60-80 characters long. Make use of a predetermined grid to keep lengths acceptable.

  
See [W3 Page Structure Guidelines](https://www.w3.org/WAI/tutorials/page-structure/styling/) for more information.

## Brand Typefaces

| Brand | Font & Description | Example |
| -- | -- | -- |
| Whitelabel, Primary | **Libre Baskerville** <br/>is used as our default primary font for headlines and titles, as well as subheaders which are page headings and section headings | BOLD, REGULAR EXAMPLE |
| Whitelabel, Secondary | **Source Sans Pro** <br/>is used as our default secondary and tertiary font for body text as well as small headers and info text | BOLD, REGULAR, ITALICS EXAMPLES |
| Gothamist, Primary | **Pragati Narrow** <br/>is used as the primary font for headlines and titles, as well as subheaders which are page headings and section headings | BOLD, REGULAR EXAMPLES |
| Gothamist, Secondary | **Barlow** <br/>is used as a secondary font for body text. | BOLD, REGULAR, ITALICS EXAMPLE |
| Gothamist, Tertiary | **B612 Mono** <br/>is used as a tertiary font for small headers and info text. Since this font is always displayed at a very small size, to help with legibility, this font should always be utilized in all caps, with a letter-spacing of 1.25 | BOLD,<br/>REGULAR EXAMPLES |
