stories/00-Foundations/20-Color.stories.mdx, before:

import { Meta } from '@storybook/addon-docs/blocks';
import { ColorSwatch } from '../../.storybook/custom/components/Swatches'

<Meta title="Foundations/Color & Borders" />

# Color & Borders

## Color

Colors in Radial play double duty. They are expressive of the brand and purposeful in usage. Like Daniel Craig as Bond, colors should look incredible on screen, but also deftly complete the mission.


### Categories

Colors can be thought of in three distinct categories and are flexible per site or brand. Primary colors include core brand colors (i.e. WNYC red) and can be used for prominent page elements such as CTAs, buttons, and backgrounds. Utility colors are typically shades of black and white used for body text, headers, or default backgrounds. Accent colors are any other polychromatic color used for a functional reason. Accent colors might include a shade of green for success or red for error.

### Tokens

Tokens are named entities that store visual design attributes. Typically, tokens are used in place of hard-coded values ( ex. hex values for color, pixel values for spacing) to maintain a consistent visual system.

See a more detailed list of tokens in use in [Airtable](https://airtable.com/invite/l?inviteId=invsghVm3eYR1d6T9&inviteToken=124e9347d00036d37c22a656c1db30fb33545926729192aa51f4814f52a8267b).

  

### Accessibility

All text should have enough contrast with its background to be easily readable. Contrast is measured in a ratio format (i.e 4:1) where the difference between the opposing numbers indicates how much luminance there is between a given foreground and background. The bigger the difference between the two numbers, the higher the contrast. According to WCAG 2.0, contrast standards at the AA level are defined:

-   3.0 contrast ratio for large text 
-   14 pt font or larger for bold    
-   18 pt font or larger for regular
-   4.5 contrast ratio for smaller text
    

### Whitelabel Pallete

Our Whitelabel uses a minimal yet functional palette to communicate best practices of Primary, Utility, and Accent colors.

WHITELABEL COLOR SWATCHES  (PRIMARY / UTILITY / ACCENT)

| Color Swatch Type | Color Swatch Examples |
| -- | -- |
| Primary | COLOR SWATCHES HERE |
| Utility | COLOR SWATCHES HERE |
| Accent | COLOR SWATCHES HERE |

**Cool Blue** is the primary color for CTAs, buttons, or interactive elements. **Ceramic Blue** can be used as a header color or background color for larger, prominent components. **Sky Blue** is purely a decorative lighter alternative. **Gray Dark** is our primary text color, including headers, body text, and small text. **Cool White** is an alternative background-color. **Ember Red** is used solely for errors or warnings and **Sea Green** for success messaging or confirmations.

### Gothamist Palette

Our no-nonsense civic-minded palette for Gothamist focuses on text content and headlines while accenting with color that reminds us of the warm asphalt jungle that is NYC.

GOTHAMIST COLOR SWATCHES (PRIMARY / UTILITY / ACCENT)

| Color Swatch Type | Color Swatch Examples |
| -- | -- |
| Primary | COLOR SWATCHES HERE |
| Utility | COLOR SWATCHES HERE |
| Accent | COLOR SWATCHES HERE |


**Banana Yellow** is the primary color used for accents, emphasis, and CTAs. **Reddish Orange** is also used for CTAs and actions related to donating or membership. **WNYC Red** is self-explanatory. **Gray Dark** is the primary header and body text color. **Gray** is used for certain icons, and **Dirty Salmon** is used for header underlines and emphasis. **Dusk Blue** is used for important banners, Purple for things relating to sponsored content, and **Taxicab Yellow** for highlighted container backgrounds (banners, signup cards, etc.)

### Themes
Color groups help pretermine foreground colors based on background color. Gothamist has two color groups, light and dark. 

#### Light
<img alt="gothamist light theme" src="./images/Foundations-Color-Gothamist-LightTheme.png" width="737" />

#### Dark
<img alt="gothamist dark theme" src="./images/Foundations-Color-Gothamist-DarkTheme.png" width="492" />


## Borders

Borders give structure and decoration to elements in order to form containers for content. Like other styling elements, they allow us to delineate different types of content in order to help users find what they are looking for. They are also used to set visual tone, create sensical UX patterns and draw a users eye to important call-outs or information. Remember, borders are not always necessary, but can be a useful tool in the right scenario, like a potato masher.

### Usage

Currently, borders are actively used in Gothamist in text decoration, buttons, and banners. Dashed styles in this case are important to the brand's online expression.

Generally borders are used to help call-out or indicate something of high value on the page. Typically borders can help establish hierarchy on the page, for example, using a prominent border around an email collector can signify the primary action for the user to take, while using a more subtle border (for example sponsored ad) can help users to distinguish paid content from standard editorial content.  

### Styles

Radial offers three slots for borders styles: **subtle**, **normal**, and **bold**. Each style has its own color variable, and each style can be customized (i.e. width, style, and color) to suit a brand's theme.
  
The Whitelabel styles shown below are only to communicate best practices for the three set styles, **subtle** being the least visually commanding of the three, **bold** being the most. When customizing these borders, make sure the style roughly fits into one of the three naming conventions, relative to the other two.

| Border Name | Border Properties | Border Example |
| -- | -- | -- |
| --b-border-subtle | 2px, dashed (3,3) | EXAMPLE OF BORDER STYLE HERE |
| --b-border-normal | 3px, solid | EXAMPLE OF BORDER STYLE HERE |
| --b-border-bold | 5px, dashed (10,10) |  EXAMPLE OF BORDER STYLE HERE |

More information on border styling can be found [here](https://flaviocopes.com/css-border/).

Commit message:

Added WQXR-Jukebox colors + borders
Added a section for the WQXR palette and included the description. Added WQXR border information under the Borders / Usage section.

stories/00-Foundations/20-Color.stories.mdx, after:

import { Meta } from '@storybook/addon-docs/blocks';
import { ColorSwatch } from '../../.storybook/custom/components/Swatches'

<Meta title="Foundations/Color & Borders" />

# Color & Borders

## Color

Colors in Radial play double duty. They are expressive of the brand and purposeful in usage. Like Daniel Craig as Bond, colors should look incredible on screen, but also deftly complete the mission.


### Categories

Colors can be thought of in three distinct categories and are flexible per site or brand. Primary colors include core brand colors (i.e. WNYC red) and can be used for prominent page elements such as CTAs, buttons, and backgrounds. Utility colors are typically shades of black and white used for body text, headers, or default backgrounds. Accent colors are any other polychromatic color used for a functional reason. Accent colors might include a shade of green for success or red for error.

### Tokens

Tokens are named entities that store visual design attributes. Typically, tokens are used in place of hard-coded values ( ex. hex values for color, pixel values for spacing) to maintain a consistent visual system.

See a more detailed list of tokens in use in [Airtable](https://airtable.com/invite/l?inviteId=invsghVm3eYR1d6T9&inviteToken=124e9347d00036d37c22a656c1db30fb33545926729192aa51f4814f52a8267b).

  

### Accessibility

All text should have enough contrast with its background to be easily readable. Contrast is measured in a ratio format (i.e 4:1) where the difference between the opposing numbers indicates how much luminance there is between a given foreground and background. The bigger the difference between the two numbers, the higher the contrast. According to WCAG 2.0, contrast standards at the AA level are defined:

-   3.0 contrast ratio for large text 
-   14 pt font or larger for bold    
-   18 pt font or larger for regular
-   4.5 contrast ratio for smaller text
    

### Whitelabel Pallete

Our Whitelabel uses a minimal yet functional palette to communicate best practices of Primary, Utility, and Accent colors.

WHITELABEL COLOR SWATCHES  (PRIMARY / UTILITY / ACCENT)

| Color Swatch Type | Color Swatch Examples |
| -- | -- |
| Primary | COLOR SWATCHES HERE |
| Utility | COLOR SWATCHES HERE |
| Accent | COLOR SWATCHES HERE |

**Cool Blue** is the primary color for CTAs, buttons, or interactive elements. **Ceramic Blue** can be used as a header color or background color for larger, prominent components. **Sky Blue** is purely a decorative lighter alternative. **Gray Dark** is our primary text color, including headers, body text, and small text. **Cool White** is an alternative background-color. **Ember Red** is used solely for errors or warnings and **Sea Green** for success messaging or confirmations.

### Gothamist Palette

Our no-nonsense civic-minded palette for Gothamist focuses on text content and headlines while accenting with color that reminds us of the warm asphalt jungle that is NYC.

GOTHAMIST COLOR SWATCHES (PRIMARY / UTILITY / ACCENT)

| Color Swatch Type | Color Swatch Examples |
| -- | -- |
| Primary | COLOR SWATCHES HERE |
| Utility | COLOR SWATCHES HERE |
| Accent | COLOR SWATCHES HERE |


**Banana Yellow** is the primary color used for accents, emphasis, and CTAs. **Reddish Orange** is also used for CTAs and actions related to donating or membership. **WNYC Red** is self-explanatory. **Gray Dark** is the primary header and body text color. **Gray** is used for certain icons, and **Dirty Salmon** is used for header underlines and emphasis. **Dusk Blue** is used for important banners, Purple for things relating to sponsored content, and **Taxicab Yellow** for highlighted container backgrounds (banners, signup cards, etc.)

### WQXR Palette

Our cool and calming color palette for WQXR is meant to relax and invite users to our audio-focused, classical music experience.

WQXR COLOR SWATCHES (PRIMARY / UTILITY / ACCENT)

| Color Swatch Type | Color Swatch Examples |
| -- | -- |
| Primary | COLOR SWATCHES HERE |
| Utility | COLOR SWATCHES HERE |


**Denim Blue** is the primary color for CTAs, secondary headers, and may be used as a background color or for larger, prominent elements. **Water Blue** can be used as a background color or as a tertiary header color. **Azure** is purely a decorative lighter alternative. **White** is the primary color for headers, footer text, tooltip text, logos, and buttons. **Black** is used for main text on white card backgrounds and as the tooltip background color. **Grey Dark** may be used for main headers on editorial pages. **White 50 opacity** may be used for smaller headers on blue backgrounds. **Black 50 opacity** may be used for time information on playlists.

### Themes
Color groups help pretermine foreground colors based on background color. Gothamist has two color groups, light and dark. 

#### Light
<img alt="gothamist light theme" src="./images/Foundations-Color-Gothamist-LightTheme.png" width="737" />

#### Dark
<img alt="gothamist dark theme" src="./images/Foundations-Color-Gothamist-DarkTheme.png" width="492" />


## Borders

Borders give structure and decoration to elements in order to form containers for content. Like other styling elements, they allow us to delineate different types of content in order to help users find what they are looking for. They are also used to set visual tone, create sensical UX patterns and draw a users eye to important call-outs or information. Remember, borders are not always necessary, but can be a useful tool in the right scenario, like a potato masher.

### Usage

Currently, borders are actively used in Gothamist in text decoration, buttons, and banners. Dashed styles in this case are important to the brand's online expression.

Currently, only one normal border style is actively used in WQXR (Jukebox) in buttons and boxes. It helps delineate groups of information on lists but is not central to the WQXR brand.

Generally borders are used to help call-out or indicate something of high value on the page. Typically borders can help establish hierarchy on the page, for example, using a prominent border around an email collector can signify the primary action for the user to take, while using a more subtle border (for example sponsored ad) can help users to distinguish paid content from standard editorial content.  

### Styles

Radial offers three slots for borders styles: **subtle**, **normal**, and **bold**. Each style has its own color variable, and each style can be customized (i.e. width, style, and color) to suit a brand's theme.
  
The Whitelabel styles shown below are only to communicate best practices for the three set styles, **subtle** being the least visually commanding of the three, **bold** being the most. When customizing these borders, make sure the style roughly fits into one of the three naming conventions, relative to the other two.

| Border Name | Border Properties | Border Example |
| -- | -- | -- |
| --b-border-subtle | 2px, dashed (3,3) | EXAMPLE OF BORDER STYLE HERE |
| --b-border-normal | 3px, solid | EXAMPLE OF BORDER STYLE HERE |
| --b-border-bold | 5px, dashed (10,10) |  EXAMPLE OF BORDER STYLE HERE |

More information on border styling can be found [here](https://flaviocopes.com/css-border/).
